ubuntu 14.04 , pip cannot upgrade matplotllib
When I try to upgrade my matplotlib using pip , it outputs :
In the tail of the log it says :
Why did it fail ?
Many thanks !
It might be helpful if You tell us what OS You are using and the exact pip command You issued .
I said it in the title . Ubuntu 14.04 . But , anyway , the answer below helped me . Thank you so much ! :-)
This is a known bug that has been fixed ( https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib/pull/3414 ) on master .
The bug is in the handling of searching for a freetype installation . If you install the Linux package freetype-dev , you will avoid this bug and be able to compile ` matplotlib ` .
Confirm installing libfreetype6-dev as a workaround
Is ` freetype6-dev ` ( and perhaps ` libxft-dev ` for Ubuntu 14 server ) installed with ` apt-get build-dep python-matplotlib ` ?
I can confirm this applies to Ubuntu 16.04 too and the indicated solution works .
@USER , thank you . I can confirm on Ubuntu 16.04 , using Python 2.7 , that installing libfreetype6-dev as worked as a workaround . Appreciate it .
needed to install libxft-dev also .
On Ubuntu 14 server , you also need to install libxft-dev
It seems very difficult to make out what needs to be done . However , it looks like on Ubuntu 14 sudo apt-get install libfreetype6-dev libxft-dev followed by sudo pip install matplotlib WORKS !!
This worked for me . Ta !
This is also required for Bash on Windows 10 .
I had the same issues trying to install ` matplotlib ` on Python 3 using ` pip3 ` , and it seems that this problem is related to a bare-bones installation of Python 3 , and doing a :
followed by
is probably a better solution than selectively installing only the libraries related to ` matplotlib ` .
It work fine in Ubunu14.04 !
In Ubuntu 15.04 , this wants to install 419 packages totaling 1 GB .
@USER That is tradeoff between manual dependency management and convenience .
I hope it will work .
Since mac doesn't have apt-get you , on OSX you may need to do :
then you can run :
I also had to install ` pkg-config ` with ` brew install pkg-config ` and then it worked .
Found this page while looking answer for fedora 24 .
RPM solution is :
` dnf install freetype-devel `
If you re running Ubuntu server 14.04 u should add this font dependency
Source
I was trying too update directly using sudo pip but changes are not saved in last . So i first use update cmd in terminal :
then i used sudo install :
Finally its installed by doing this method .
While this code snippet may solve the question , including an explanation really helps to improve the quality of your post . Remember that you are answering the question for readers in the future , and those people might not know the reasons for your code suggestion . Please also try not to crowd your code with explanatory comments , this reduces the readability of both the code and the explanations !
ok i will take it as a note for future .
Hi kayess ... I have updated the post . Better now ?
For those on Fedora 25 hitting this thread , I needed these two packages to make it work :